[Music]
now it happened one day that Jonathan
the son of Saul said to the young man
who bore his armor come let us go over
to the Philistines garrison that is on
the other side but he did not tell his
father and Saul was sitting in the
outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate
tree which is in Migra the people who
were with him were about six hundred men
a Hydra the son of a high tub Ichabod's
brother the son of Phineas the son of
Eli the Lord's priest in Shiloh was
wearing an ephah but the people did not
know that Jonathan had gone between the
passes by which Jonathan sought to go
over to the Philistines garrison there
was a sharp rock on one side and a sharp
rock on the other side and the name of
one was boses and the name of the other
Sina the front of one faced northward
opposite mcNeish and the other
Southwood opposite Gibeah then Jonathan
said to the young man who bore his armor
come let us go over to the garrison of
these uncircumcised it may be that the
Lord will work for us for nothing
restrains the Lord from saving by many
or by few so his armor-bearer said to
him do all that is in your heart go then
Here I am with you
according to your heart very well let us
cross over to these men and we will show
ourselves to them if they say thus to us
wait until we come to you then we will
stand still in our place and not go up
to them but if they say thus come up to
us then we will go up for the Lord has
delivered them into our hand and this
will be a sign to us so both of them
showed themselves to the garrison of the
Philistines and the Philistine said look
the Hebrews are coming out of the holes
where they have hidden then the men of
the garrison called to Jonathan and his
armor-bearer come up to us and we will
show you something Jonathan said to his
armor-bearer
come up after me for the Lord has
delivered them into the hand of Israel
and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and
knees with his armor-bearer
after him and they fell before Jonathan
and as he came after him his
armor-bearer killed
that first slaughter which Jonathan and
his armor-bearer made was about 20 men
within about half an acre of land and
there was a trembling in the camp in the
field and among all the people the
garrison and the Raiders also trembled
and the earth quaked survived it was a
very great trembling now the watchman of
soul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked and
there was the multitude melting away and
they went here and there and soul said
to the people who were with him now call
the roll and see who has gone from us
and when they had called the roll
surprisingly Jonathan and his
armor-bearer were not there and soul
said to a Hydra bring the Ark of God
here for at that time the Ark of God was
with the children of Israel now it
happened while Saul talked to the priest
that the noise which was in the camp of
the Philistines continued to increase so
Saul said to the priest withdraw your
hand then Saul and all the people who
are with him assembled and they went to
the battle and indeed every man's sword
was against his neighbor and there was
very great confusion
moreover the Hebrews who were with the
Philistines before that time who went up
with them into the camp from the
surrounding country they also joined the
Israelites who were with Saul and
Jonathan
likewise all the men of Israel who would
hidden in the mountains of Ephraim when
they heard that the Philistines fled
they also followed hard after them in
the battle so the Lord saved Israel that
day and the battle shifted to Beth Haven
and the men of Israel were distressed
that day for Saul had placed the people
under oath saying cursed is the man who
eats any food until evening before I
have taken vengeance on my enemies so
none of the people tasted food now all
the people of the land came to a forest
and there was honey on the ground and
when the people had come into the woods
there was the honey tripping but no one
put his hand to his mouth for the people
fear the oath but Jonathan had not heard
his father charged the people with the
oath
therefore he stretched out the end of
the rod that was in his hand and dipped
it in a honeycomb and put his hand to
his mouth and his countenance brightened
then one of the people said your father
strictly charged the people with an oath
saying cursed it is the man who eats
food this day and the people were faint
but Jonathan said my father has troubled
the land look now how my countenance has
brightened because I tasted a little of
this honey
how much better if the people had eaten
freely today of the spoil of their
enemies which they found for now would
there not have been a much greater
slaughter among the Philistines
now they had driven back with
Philistines that day from McMaster
Agilent so the people were very faint
and the people rushed on the spoil and
took sheep oxen and calves and
slaughtered them on the ground and the
people ate with the blood
then they told Sol look the people are
sinning against the Lord by eating with
the blood you have dealt treacherously
roll a large stone to me this day
disperse yourselves among the people and
say to them bring me here every man's ox
and every man's sheep slaughter them
here and eat and do not sin against the
Lord by eating with the blood so every
one of the people brought his ox with
him that night and slaughtered it there
then Saul
built an altar to the Lord this was the
first altar that he built to the Lord
let us go down after the Philistines by
night and plunder them until the morning
light and let us not leave a man of them
and they said do whatever seems good to
you then the priest said let us draw
near to God here so Saul asked counsel
of God shall I go down after the
Philistines will you deliver them into
the hand of Israel
but he did not answer him that day come
over here all you Chiefs of the people
and know and see what this scene was
today for as the Lord lives who saves
Israel though it be in Jonathan my son
he shall surely die but not a man among
all the people answered him then he said
to all Israel you'll be on one side and
my son Jonathan and I will be on the
other side and the people said to Saul
do what seems good to you
therefore Saul said to the Lord God of
Israel if a perfect lot so Saul and
Jonathan were taken but the people
escaped and Saul said cast lots between
my son Jonathan and me so Jonathan was
taken then Saul said to Jonathan tell me
what you have done
I only tasted a little honey with the
end of the rod that was in my hand so
now I must die God do soo and more also
for you shall surely die
Jonathan but the people said to Saul
shall Jonathan die who has accomplished
this great deliverance in Israel
certainly not as the Lord lives not one
hair of his head shall fall to the
ground for he has work with God this day
so the people rescued Jonathan and he
did not die then Saul returned from
pursuing the Philistines and the
Philistines went to their own place so
Saul established his sovereignty over
Israel and fought against all his
enemies on every side against Moab
against the people of Ammon against Edom
against the kings of Zuber and against
the Philistines wherever he turned he
harassed them and he gathered an army
and attacked the Amalekites and
delivered Israel from the hands of those
who plundered them the sons of Saul were
Jonathan Joshua and Malka sure and the
names of his two daughters were these
the name of the firstborn Meera and the
name of the younger Michael the name of
Saul's wife was a hina the daughter of a
Hamas and the name of the commander of
his army was Abner the son of Noah
Saul's uncle Kish was the father of soul
and nur the father of Abner was the son
of
now there was fierce war with the
Philistines all the days of soul and
when Saul saw any strong man or any
valiant man he took him for himself
[Music]